---
title: "Binocular structured light 3-D reconstruction system for low-light underwater environments: Design, modeling, and laser-based calibration"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-03-27-TIM
excerpt: 'This paper is about the number 1. The number 2 is left for future work.'
date: 2023-03-27
venue: 'IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement'
paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper1.pdf'
citation: 'Y. Ou, J. Fan, C. Zhou, S. Tian, L. Cheng and M. Tan, "Binocular Structured Light 3-D Reconstruction System for Low-Light Underwater Environments: Design, Modeling, and Laser-Based Calibration," in IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement, vol. 72, pp. 1-14, 2023, Art no. 5010314, doi: 10.1109/TIM.2023.3261941.'
---

The 3-D perception of the low-light underwater environment has always been a major challenge, which greatly limits underwater operations. In this article, an underwater active vision measurement system based on binocular structured light is designed to achieve high-precision 3-D reconstruction. First, the fusion technology of binocular camera and laser addresses underwater optical attenuation and feature sparsity. Then, in order to avoid the huge inertia caused by the overall movement of the system, a laser scanner based on the mirror galvanometer is used to accomplish static scanning of the scene. Subsequently, considering the influence of multiple media, underwater refraction models, including the monocular imaging model, the binocular ranging model, and the binocular polar curve constraint model, are systematically proposed. What is more, the conventional checkerboard-based passive visual calibration method is ineffective for low-light waters. Therefore, a simple calibration block is designed, and a new multiobjective laser-based calibration algorithm based on laser geometric constraints is proposed. Finally, the effectiveness of the system is verified by analyzing the 3-D reconstruction results of underwater objects.